V2.16-RUN-15152-alertmanager-alerts (#633)
run-ai/docs: docs/admin/troubleshooting/alertmanager/RunaiAgentPullRateLow.md

---
title: RunaiAgentPullRateLow
summary: This article describes the RunaiAgentPullRateLow alert.
authors:
    - Jason Novich
    - Viktor Koukouliev
date: 2024-Jan-10
---

## Meaning

> The `runai` agent may be too loaded, is slow in processing data (possible in very big clusters), or the agent pod itself in the ‘runai’ namespace may not be functioning properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `runai` agent may be too loaded, is slow in processing data (possible in very big clusters), or the ‘runai-agent‘ pod itself in the ‘runai’ namespace may not be functioning properly.
```

## Impact

> No information or partial information from the control-plane is being synced in the cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No information or partial information from the Run:ai Control Plane is being synced to the cluster.
```

## Severity

Critical

## Diagnosis

Run `kubectl get pod -n runai` to see if the `runai-agent` pod is running.

## Mitigation

> Run `kubectl describe deployment runai-agent -n runai kubectl logs deployment/runai-agent -n runai` to try and figure out why the agent is not functioning properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run 
`kubectl describe deployment runai-agent -n runai`
`kubectl logs deployment/runai-agent -n runai` 

From the logs and pod details, try and figure out why the `cluster-sync` pod is not functioning properly.
```

> It is possible that there is a connectivity issue with the control-plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible that there is a connectivity issue from the cluster to the Run:ai Control Plane.
```

> If it seems that the agent is functioning properly, but the cluster is very big and loaded, it is possible that the agent is taking time to process the data coming from the control-plane. If this is the case, and you want the alert to stop firing, you can try to edit the value under which the alert starts firing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If it seems that the `runai-agent` pod is functioning properly, but the cluster is very big and loaded, it is possible that the agent is taking time to process the data coming from the Run:ai Control Plane. If this is the case, and you want the alert to stop firing, you can try to edit the value under which the alert starts firing.
```

Run `kubectl edit runaiconfig -n runai`.

In the  `spec`:`prometheus` verify that the  `agentPullPushRateMinForAlert` (if the property does not exist, add it).

> If the property exists, the default value is 0.05. You can change it to less than that (for example, 0.045 or 0.04).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the property exists, the default value is 0.05. You can change it to less than that (for example, 0.045 or 0.04).

If the above instructions did not correct the issue, contact Run:ai support. 
```
